the fighting has intensified in and
around gaza's main city of Han yunus in
recent days as the Israeli military say
they have now breached the defensive
lines of Hamas which is designated as a
terror group by multiple countries the
IDF released footage of its troops
operating in various parts of the city
which they believe to be a stronghold of
the islamist militant group as Israel
expands its offensive into the south of
Gaza Palestinians are being forced to
flee the fighting and ongoing
bombardment thousands are heading daily
to shelters in the South where there's
still no guarantee of
safety in a rare move un Secretary
General Antonio gutterz has invoked
article 99 of the UN Charter to warn the
security Council of an impending
humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza he
urged the members to demand a ceasefire
in a letter to the security Council he
wrote without shelter or the essentials
to survive I expect public order to
completely break down soon due to the
desperate conditions rendering even
limited humanitarian assistance
impossible meanwhile hundreds of
thousands of people have been told to
relocate to so-called safe zones but the
UN says nowhere and Gaza is
safe survivors sift through the rubble
of a destroyed home struck by Israeli
missiles in the early hours of the
morning there were 30 people inside the
house 20 of them were
children we don't know what happened to
us the fire hit and all of it collapsed
on top of us none of us made it out
completely okay everyone is
hurt the United Nations says almost 1.9
million gazans have fled their homes
since the War Began many wound up here
in Kan
Yunis now gaza's second largest city is
a Battleground Israel says it's
operating against Kamas strongholds in
the South and both sides report that the
fighting is fierce leaving civilians
with nowhere to
go all
my senior colleagues have been very
clear including the Secretary General
saying there is no there is no there are
no safe places in Gaza speaking to DW
news the Israel Defense Forces explained
why they fire on safe
zones now if
Hamas uses a what has previously been
defined as a safe Zone in order to fight
and to fire Rockets or missiles at
Israeli civilians or to conduct combat
activities towards our troops from that
area then there may be a case where we
will retaliate fire but that is a very
an extremely small
percentage the main hospital in Kan
yunes is overwhelmed the UN says
delivering vital aid supplies is
impossible amid the fighting
and still the injured keep
coming as do the
bodies the devastation in Khan yunes has
left many Palestinians with a sense that
the world has abandoned
them we need someone to stand by our
side we need someone to find us a
solution we are
devastated but despite a brief ceasefire
between Israel and Hamas the renewed
fighting is as intense as
ever let's pick this up with journalist
Samy sakol in Jerusalem welcome back
Sammy um let's start with a claim from
the Israeli military that they found
what they say is one of the largest
weapons that depos in
Gaza yeah indeed the uh Hamas as we know
already has a produced weapons of
various kinds uh in underground there
underground factories inside the Gaza
Strip in in fact in the 7th of October
Israel was surprised with the scope of
the equipment the military equipment
that Hamas has and what we see in what
the idef was showing is both from the
Kalashnikov the
AK-47 machine guns and all the way
through RPG anti-tank and the long long
range missiles that are aimed at Tel
Aviv so this is definitely one of the
achievements of the IDF in this
operation and they were stating that
this U this Depot in the north of the
Gaza Strip was in a residential area and
was not far from some schools and a
clinic right now meanwhile the UN
Secretary General Antonio gues has said
that the humanit Arian situation in Gaza
is now at risk of total collapse he's
called for a ceasefire it doesn't look
like Israel is ready to
comply no
indeed Israel is now talking about ER
accelerating the campaign in the Gaza
Strip uh Ben Gant who is in the war
cabinet he was saying we're listening to
our friends uh but we're doing what's
good for Israel and the what the
leadership in Israel believes is that
continuing the military campaign is
what's good and you have Gant the
Minister of Defense said the other day
that by doing it it will also make the
Hamas surrender and release the
prisoners that are kept by Hamas right
of course at the the the center of this
are the hostages taken by Hamas on the
uh in October um and we've had today
these leaked audio recordings of a
meeting between the Prime Minister and
freed hostages which appeared to reveal
criticism from those hostages of how the
Situation's been handled just talk us
through their criticism
Sammy indeed very harsh criticism and we
heard it both from those who were held
kidnapped and also their family members
who participated in this very big
meeting and the what the hostages were
saying is that when they were held
hostage by Hamas they were scared not
from Hamas they were scared of the
bombings they were they were terrified
by these bombings and they said that one
one of the hostages was saying where is
your intelligence you bombarded right
next to us and they they described a
situation of big fear another thing they
said is that they demanded the release
of all the hostages and they say that
Israel has missed an opportunity to
release the hostages by refusing to
release the elderly and the men and they
were saying that the men that are kept
hostage there are suffering more than
the women H they described a very
difficult situation there and they said
that they have to be released now and
one cannot wait any
anymore okay thanks for that Samy Sammy
S in
Jerusalem DW's senior International
correspondent Fanny fad joins me from
Jerusalem now no un Chief has taken this
action in half a century funny gues
urges that the maintenance of
International Peace and security is at
stake here how has this been perceived
in
Israel
a lot of people here in Israel will
agree that there must be an end to this
cycle of violence there must be an end
to suffering and some a way out of it
but if they uh look at the remarks made
there by the head of United Nations
they're also very skeptical really
whether a resolution can be even
achieved and once it's being voted on
really what the result is because one
has to understand that there are five
permanent members in that Security
Council and those permanent members
include the United States the closest
Ally of isra that has made it clear over
and over again that they are not
supporting a ceasefire right what they
do call for is is rather a humanitarian
PA so uh the United Nations wanting to
bring this issue once again to the
Voting floow is of course something
really important and it comes down here
among a lot of Israelis who really wants
to see an end a way out of it as as a
positive situation but on the other hand
there's a lot of skepticism revolving
around this because because while we are
talking about it that war is Raging on
in Gaza Strip and it's really just
unclear how long and how intense uh this
is going to continue F you're also
monitoring developments in Gaza
specifically what can you tell us about
the situation in the southern city of
Han
Unice we're hearing from the Israeli
government from the idea of the Israeli
Israeli forces that apparently that
house of yaka Sinar the presumed
Mastermind beond the October 7th attack
that his house is encircled now it is
unclear whether he's in that house in in
uh uh in the city and whether his family
is in there it's completely unclear what
is known that there's Fierce fighting in
hunis going on between Hamas militants
and the IDF and while that is happening
uh thousands of people are forced
basically to leave a city that was
deemed safe just a few weeks ago at
least that's what Israel said meanwhile
people people here that are missing
their relatives that remain abducted
there in Gaza Strip are hoping to find
out any sign of live any sign of about
the whereabouts and the state of uh
their relatives and in fact there was an
exhibition in Tel Aviv yesterday again
recalling what's been happening there
that really doesn't mean a lot of
recalling what happened in October 7th
at that Nova Festival but once again
drawing the world's attention to uh
what's what happened there on the ground
on October
and uh where hundreds of people have
been killed with shoes and other remains
lined up there at exhibition let's have
a look at the
report handbags shoes and toys many of
the people who owned these belongings
were
killed an early morning of trans music
turned into
Nightmare Hamas Fighters stormed the
festival just kilometers away from the
Gaza border and Gunn down as many people
as they could the organizers of the
festival have recreated the venue in Tel
Aviv for them each item displayed here
is a reminder of the terrorists
brutality we built this
exhibition and in memory for all our
friends we lost all the people from the
community that have died uh on the 7th
um
um our Purpose with this exhibition
is not only for our country to see it
for the whole world to see
it in Israel a strong sense of Sorrow is
visible
everywhere more than 130 hostages are
still in Gaza and Israelis want all of
them back the feeling is the hostages
must be released that's the number one
cause and for the whole
situation there shouldn't be one more
day of hostages being held there not
women not elderly no children no men
they all have to come back all of them
one by one I'm feeling frightened scared
aggravated angry angry with my
government useless
government and uh I'm hoping that this
this situation will be resolved quickly
and peacefully as much as
possible as the fighting continues
Israel has also been losing
troops this family is mourning the loss
of a young Soldier killed in
Gaza I hope that this is my last friend
and the last Soldier but I know it's not
going to H happen and we have to not we
have to but we're going to pay a lot of
prices of soldiers and these soldiers
the first of all they son of someone the
friend of someone the the the human
being and this war is the price of this
war it's really really high for everyone
it's really really
high many families in Israel as well as
Gaza are overwhelmed by
grief and with no signs of Peace the war
is likely to bring more suffering to
both
sides funny as we've seen in that report
people in Israel are sad and angry two
months since the Hamas attacks on Israel
what do people feel their government
should be doing right
now a lot of people that I'm speaking
here to here in Israel are saying that
actually this government is not the
right government to uh find a solution
to this in fact a lot of people say that
prime minister netan is responsible to
what happened in o on October 7th
underestimating actually Hamas and uh h
M militants which is classified a
terrorist organization by multiple
countries that they were able to carry
out this terrorist attack to begin with
on October 7 but you will also hear
voices of people saying that Netanyahu
is doing what he has to do and that is
to take revenge on what happened on
October 7th and and and wipe out from
their perspective Hamas once and for all
what a lot of people here underestimate
I think is uh the fact that Hamas is not
only seen as a described and classified
as a terrorist organization but it is
also a social movement in uh Gaza Strip
but also within uh the occupied West
Bank there are people who do support
Hamas because they see the Hamas
militants as their way their only
alternative in fact and also other
militant group groups to voice their
frustration over the uh decades long
conflict with Israel having said that
there have really mixed reactions in
terms of what's the way out of it and a
lot of people what they're telling me is
that they're missing a vision really a
vision both for the security of
Palestinians and here Israelis a vision
for peace and security for
all DW's senior International
correspondent funny fasha reporting from
Jerusalem thank
you well AIA and N Weinberg are two
sisters whose cousin IAI was taken
hostage by Hamas on the 7th of October
they're here in Germany for a meeting
with Chancellor Schultz tomorrow uh
thanks for coming in welcome uh both um
let's start with what happened to itai
back in
October so itai was visiting his parents
and our grandmother for the holiday he
doesn't live in kibuts beri he lives in
Tel Aviv and on that morning we were
witnessing
um we're witnessing the attack through
WhatsApp group our family chat uh it
started by orit's Mom saying asking us
to pray for them uh um saying that they
hear bombings and shootings in the
street after a while it Tai's father he
was in a different house he told us
they're inside the house please call for
help and that was the last message we
got from him right and since then you
have you have heard nothing you've heard
and seen nothing of so since then
actually just a few days ago we got a
sign of life from itai for the first
time after more than 50 days and what
was that um we got it from one of the
hostages that were released and was held
with him the whole
time um and it was that he's alive which
was you know a big a big release for us
cuz we didn't know even if he's alive
until now the Red Cross didn't see him
didn't meet him nonone humanitarian
organization met any of the hostages so
we really didn't know but we also
understood from them that he is in a
very bad mental state he is suffering
from Deep
anxiety he witnessed his mother being
murdered before he was taken away he was
with her at her house and he saw Kamas
terrorist shooting her and then they
took him away we know that he thinks he
assumes that his father was also
murdered because of that text
message and he thinks that his whole
family that lives in
kib are all murder met dead he he he
knows that his sister was the only one
that was Far Away on October 7th so he
thinks she's the only one that
survived besides that we know that Kamas
terrorists are doing psychological tear
on the hostages that are being held they
are telling telling them there is no
Israel country anymore they're telling
them they have nowhere to go back to no
one cares about them no one is doing
nothing in order to get them out no one
is talking on them
and from what he knows that he saw his
mother being murdered and he assumes
that it happened to his dad as well and
he knows that the whole family lives in
the same area so and then in all the
suffering that he's in right now he
thinks that's the truth right right and
and tell me when the the we've had we
had seven days of this ceasefire and uh
I think three or four sets of hostages
uh released in that time so were you
watching those hostages to see if I was
amongst them or or were list published
previously no the list was um the
families had uh like they got the list
before and we all knew that it will only
include children and women because no no
men were right yeah so we already knew
that itti will not be released during
that Sea Fire during that deal okay so
where does that leave you as a family
because we we heard um uh just now in a
report of uh families um taking the
Israeli government to task saying
they're not doing enough to get there uh
to get their um their loved ones out
where are you on on that what do you
think of the way um the the government
has handled this in some way we're also
disappointed cuz it's been
61 days today and they're still not home
and is still held hostage by Kamas
terrorist and we know that every day
that goes by is a danger for their life
their life is in danger they're barely
getting food they're getting one PL uh
slice of bread a day uh or just a bit of
rice we know they they haven't got any
Medical Treatments any medications and
we know that their life is limited in
time so what should the government have
done then should should the Israeli
government have um agreed to another
ceasefire because as the way Hamas tells
it it was Israel that was blocking this
I mean you know you don't know that we
weren't in the room but that's the Hamas
story I I expect the Israeli government
to put the hostages in first on first
priority so does that mean then um keep
having ceasefires until they are all out
or as the the government would say we've
got some out and we got them out because
we kept hammering away at Hamas and this
is how we expect to get more outs well I
know that there was no deal on the table
and if there is a deal on the table that
could bring it Tai back I expect Israel
to take it even if it includes SE fire I
think that the hostages must come first
right you're meeting Chancellor Schultz
uh tomorrow for for what reason what do
you want from him itai is a German
citizen um we've been here it's our
second time right now in Germany we've
met um councelor Schultz in the past and
many other politicians before and our
expectation from Germany is to treat and
handle this case as German citizens that
are taken that were taken hostage and to
treat it in you know in the same way
they would have treated if it would
happen on Germany's land so what do you
believe they haven't done that they
should have done I think right now that
the the whole world um needs to level up
the pressure that they're putting on the
the countries that are playing a
mediator act in this situation it's like
Qatar like yes like Qatar like Egypt
like turkey the countries that are
feeding Kamas that are hosting them that
are housing the the Kamas leaders and I
know that if the pressure would be
you know hard enough or big enough it
would happen and the hostages would be
released so a fe what what what do you
want to hear from the chancellor
tomorrow you go and have your meeting
and he will nod and listen but what do
you want in an Ideal World what do you
want him to say that will that will go
some way to putting uh putting you at
ease of course in an ideal way I would
want him to tell me that the Tai is
coming back today tomorrow but I know he
can't say it um but so I would like to
hear I would like to have his promise
that he is treating itai as it was
happening on Berlin in Berlin and that
he is putting the hostages life in first
priority okay thank you both uh for
coming in and and talking to us we wish
you well with your your meetings um AIA
and Nama Weinberg thank you thank you
for